README.md, before:

Requirements
=================

The project uses the following software:

- Python (3.6+)
- Django (3.0+)
- Celery
- FFmpeg (4.0+)
- Gource (0.50+)
- Redis
- SQLite


First Steps
=================

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS
-----------------

    sudo apt install ffmpeg git gource libjpeg8-dev libpng-dev mercurial python3 python3-dev python3-venv redis-server sqlite3 zlib1g-dev

The version of `ffmpeg` (3.4.8) included with Ubuntu 18.04 has some bugs related
to looping audio, which affects the audio mixing process.
While the application will run on 18.04, you should include a custom version
of FFmpeg on the system and set the `FFMPEG_PATH` setting to its local path.


Ubuntu 20.04 LTS
-----------------

    sudo apt install ffmpeg git gource libjpeg8-dev libpng-dev mercurial python3 python3-dev python3-venv redis-server sqlite3 zlib1g-dev


Python Setup
-----------------

Create a virtual environment and install needed packages

    python3 -m venv env         # Create virtualenv
    source env/bin/activate     # Activate virtualenv
    pip install -c constraints.txt -r requirements.txt

On MacOS, if certain packages give you trouble, you can set the ARCHFLAGS
environment variable to prevent Xcode from building the wrong binary type

    ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" pip install Pillow


Initialize App
=================

With environment active, run initial migrations

    python3 gource_studio/manage.py migrate

Next, copy the sample settings override file into place (and make any needed changes):

    cd gource_studio/gource_studio
    cp custom_settings.py.example custom_settings.py

By default, this will initialize using a SQLite database (`app.db`)
To configure an alternate DB storage, edit the `DATABASES` dictionary
within the `custom_settings.py` file.

Lastly, create a default superuser account for the application

    python3 gource_studio/manage.py createsuperuser


Run Services
==================

Application uses Redis as a cache backend, so ensure `redis-server` is running.

Next, start the Celery task runner service:

    # Runs in foreground
    ./run_celery.sh

Last, start the main Django application service

    # Runs in foreground
    ./run.sh



Other Notes
==================

Run Headless with Xvfb (Linux)
----------------------------------

If you are running on a Linux system, you may be able to run the Gource render
in a headless mode using **Xvfb** (X virtual frame buffer).  This avoids needing
an active GUI (otherwise required by Gource), and may result in faster builds.

On Ubuntu, install the `xvfb` package:

    sudo apt install xvfb

Then enable `USE_XVFB` in the app settings:

    # custom_settings.py
    USE_XVFB = True

Commit message:

Added unit test support (pytest); dropped Python 3.6/3.7 support
- Added basic `pytest-django` setup with simple Project tests
  - Added `coverage` support and simple `.coveragerc` file
- Updated requirements for Python 3.8 minimum; updated README
- Renamed `gource_studio.celery` to `celery_app` to fix ambiguous imports
- Fixed bug generating video thumbnails on Pillow >= 9.1.0.
- Fixed naive DateTimeField when selecting default UNIX epoch for build sorting
- Fixed JS bug when adding new project captions (due to refactor)

README.md, after:

Requirements
=================

The project uses the following software:

- Python (3.8+)
- Django (3.2+)
- Celery
- FFmpeg (4.0+)
- Gource (0.50+)
- Redis
- SQLite


First Steps
=================

Ubuntu 20.04 / 22.04 LTS
------------------------

    sudo apt install ffmpeg git gource libjpeg8-dev libpng-dev mercurial python3 python3-dev python3-venv redis-server sqlite3 zlib1g-dev

The version of `gource` (0.50/0.51) included with these Ubuntu versions has an issue
where the font scale is not applied to the file extension sidebar.  On larger
resolutions (1920x1080 or higher) this can make the widget text too small to recognize.

To address this, you can manually include a newer version of ``gource`` on the system
and set the absolute path using the ``GOURCE_PATH`` setting.


Python Setup
-----------------

Create a virtual environment and install needed packages

    python3 -m venv env         # Create virtualenv
    source env/bin/activate     # Activate virtualenv
    pip install -c constraints.txt -r requirements.txt

On MacOS, if certain packages give you trouble, you can set the ARCHFLAGS
environment variable to prevent Xcode from building the wrong binary type

    ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" pip install Pillow


Initialize App
=================

First, copy the sample settings override file into place (and make any needed changes):

    cd gource_studio/gource_studio
    cp custom_settings.py.example custom_settings.py

By default, this will initialize using a SQLite database (`app.db`)
To configure an alternate DB storage, edit the `DATABASES` dictionary
within the `custom_settings.py` file.

Next, with the virtual environment active run the initial migrations

    python3 gource_studio/manage.py migrate

Lastly, create a default superuser account for the application

    python3 gource_studio/manage.py createsuperuser


Run Services
==================

Application uses Redis as a cache backend, so ensure `redis-server` is running.

Next, start the Celery task runner service:

    # Runs in foreground
    ./run_celery.sh

Last, start the main Django application service

    # Runs in foreground
    ./run.sh



Other Notes
==================

Test Suite
==================

Unit tests can be run by first installing test requirements

    source env/bin/activate     # Activate virtualenv
    pip install -c constraints.txt -r requirements-test.txt

Then, use the provided script

    # Run pytest (optionally with coverage)
    ./run_tests.sh


Run Headless with Xvfb (Linux)
----------------------------------

If you are running on a Linux system, you may be able to run the Gource render
in a headless mode using **Xvfb** (X virtual frame buffer).  This avoids needing
an active GUI (otherwise required by Gource), and may result in faster builds.

On Ubuntu, install the `xvfb` package:

    sudo apt install xvfb

Then enable `USE_XVFB` in the app settings:

    # custom_settings.py
    USE_XVFB = True
